Team 1 
*  Crump TYLER MPAMH Document 3. This document is the firsthand account from Captain John Mason explaining the invasion and eventual destruction by fire of an Indian village. During the Pequot War, Mason recounts that the order was given to burn the village and to slaughter all of the inhabitants. One thing that was particularly interesting to me was the references to God and how it seems apparent that many believed their actions were justified by God.
MPAMH Document 4. This document provides a different perspective on the murder and burning of a Pequot Indian Village. William Apess, a Pequot himself, helps to highlight the brutality of the attack through his own words on the events that occurred. Apess asks the question of how anyone could justify the actions taken place by those such as Captain John Mason. Apess also questions how ancient Roman noblemen suffered death at the hand of the Gauls with no resistance and were applauded as noble and magnanimous; but the Indians that took the same action were seen as &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;quot;obstinate and sullen&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;quot;(Apess 1831).
Essay 1. The Puritans were Savages In this essay, Francis Jennings explains exactly why it was that settlers in America waged war so ruthlessly on the native inhabitants. Very broadly, it boiled down to the fact that the views that were carried over from Europe were that natives were &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;quot;outside the law of moral obligation&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;quot;(Jennings). He then goes on to explain in depth the strategies involved in the process of justifying and executing the annihilation of the Native Americans. These strategies included tactics such as provoking competitiveness between tribes, the disregard for any promises or agreements made with natives, a policy of total extermination, and an advanced propaganda campaign to justify the brutal actions taken. The essay later describes in depth how Mason would not have been satisfied with a simple victory over the Pequots, and that even their Narragansett allies had withdrew after learning of Mason's intentions. Rather than bring peace to New England, the attack of the Pequots instead simply brought forward more fighting and more conflict, and ultimately more death.
* Darrington MAX
Document 3: Captain John Mason explains the decision to burn the Village (1637). Captain Mason is recalling the events in which the English attacked an Indian settlement. He describes the battle inside the fort and the consequential decision to burn the wigwams. Captain Mason describes Gods role in his victory very vividly, with many Indian causalities and only two English casualties.

Document 4: William Apess, a Pequot, Later Denounces the Mystic Massacre (1637). William Apess recalls the English massacre of the Pequot Indians, mentioning the cold blooded nature of the brutal attack. Leaving many slain then burnt with their family left to a swamp. He goes onto talk about how the Pequot Indians would rather die than to submit to the English, saying they did not die with fear but with pride.

Essay 1: The Puritan were the savages, describes the brutal and savage nature of the settlers from Europe. Warfare was barbaric and bloody, killing men, women and children, whilst mainly taking children as prisoners. Moreover, the settlers would create inter-tribal competition, to ensure they had absolute control over the natives, conjuring up myths about fictitious beasts that the Puritans were actually protecting the natives from. The Puritans broke agreements with the Tribes and in sighted war upon tribes for no just reasoning.
* Hipius KEN Doc 3: The accounts of mystic river are told by Captain Mason. He describes how much of a great battle he lead and how the other Indians were in shock because of his actions.He also describes how he burned the village to the ground with god's approval. Doc 4: An ancestor of the Pequot tribe describes the evil of the attack, and how there was no remorse for the village.He says that the attack was coldblooded and that it was horrible how proud the commanders were for the attack. Essay 1: The evilness of the Puritans is brought to modern light, and the attack on mystic river is understood through modern times.
* Moore COLBY
* Morlock CALLIE
MPAMH D. 3 This document explains the decision that Captain Underhill and Captain Mason made to burn the Fort they had approached for assault. It discussed how hundreds of Pequot Indians in the Fort were burned in slightly over an hour while the English suffered two casualties and twenty injuries.
MPAMH D. 4 This document is by a Pequot survivor suffering the loss of the indiscriminate butchery by the English. He explains how those that escaped are devastated by their losses, but would rather die than beg for mercy from the English. Although they suffered a great loss from a horrible act, this event has provided the ability for others to expand their minds.
Essay 1 This essay, Jennings discusses how the war the English was savage act and left the Indians with three lessons that would never be forgotten. Jennings explained how Indians were viewed as ferocious wild creatures that were a danger to society. It was explained that Captain Mason did not intend for a battle, but a massacre. He proceeded to burn the village down rather than defeat them with sword and save the resources. The Pequot's may have suffered up to seven-hundred casualties while the English only a few.

* Gaulin ANDREW
Document 3: Captain John Mason and his men begin a 2-mile march on the morning of April 23, 1637. The mission is to conquer and destroy the Pallizado Indians, and their fort. Upon reaching the fort, the soldiers entered the fort from 2 different entrances. After finding the Indians hiding in their Wigwams, Captain John Mason gave the order to set the huts ablaze. After the fort was conquered, Mason took his troops outside the fort and burned the remains to the ground.

Document 4: The account of a young William Apess, a Pequot Indian.The night was filled with bloodshed and fire. The Englishmen who marched upon the Pequot's entered their village and used both swords and fire to destroy them. This tale also tells the side of the feeling of the Indians. Although many accounts of this tragedy recall the Indians being afraid, this account says that the Pequots did not die in fear but with pride, because they would much rather welcome death than submission.

Essay 1

The puritan settlers from Europe engaged in extremely savage warfare. They would often incite competition between rival native tribes in order to maintain control over them. The settlers would also often break promises/commitments made to the Indian peoples no matter how sacred that agreement may have been at the time. Continuing to have control over them was important to the settlers, and one of the savage techniques that was employed was creating myths about ferocious beasts which would create a deep fear in the Indians thus placing them under the protection of the settlers. The soldiers would kill the men, women, and children and even take prisoners (mostly children).



h2 Team 2
* Bender MAX
The essay titled 'The Frontier as the Forefront of Capitalism' focuses on how and why Americans moved out west. Worster talks about how the rest of the world viewed the West back in the late 1800's Adventurers and scientist pre the gold rush returned with information about the west that looked grim. Much of the west, they said, was un-farmable and in some cases water was scarce and sometimes non-existent. Woster continues to describe how the Government provided incentives for people to move westward, to the frontier. But science and technology was very little so many families found it very difficult to live in the frontier. The people to discover the best way to survive on the frontier were the Mormons, with their knowledge of irragation. They were able to bring water from rivers to farmable lands, allowing them to grow crops such as potatoes and other vegetables. Irrigation helped increase the yield of these vegetables by over 1000%. Disputes quickly arose over who owned which river, and who was allowed to pull water from it but for the most part people decided to work together, sharing technology and resources. 

 Borkowski BILLY

Document 2: Captain John Underhill Justifies the Attack on Mystic Village, in the Pequot War(1637), 1638

Captain John Underhill cites the justification for the barbaric attack against the Pequots as a religious one. He claims that when a people has sinned so much against God and men, sometimes it is necessary for them to perish; women and children included. The savagery of the colonists surprised the Indians that had been allied in this fight alongside them - the Narragansets and the Mohigeners. The Indians denounced the colonial methods of warfare, as they observed that the casualties were far too many in comparison to their own ritualistic skirmishes. Indians would later however come to adopt this brutal form of European-American warfare. 

Essay 2: The Tragedy of Conflicting Military Cultures by Adam J. Hirsch

While the colonists and Native Americans had both exhibited a ritualistic form of warfare prior to the collision of their two cultures, the two peoples had very different views of what exactly the purpose of warfare was. Colonists were used to large-scale conquest. Combat was conducted in an orderly fashion, and a certain code of honor was observed during these proceedings. The intertribal warfare of the Indians usually arose from individualistic motives of the tribesmen themselves. Thus, conflicts were often small, and participants fought on a volunteer basis. In addition, the guerilla-style nature of the Indians was a stark contrast to the traditional European style of the colonists. Realizing that this style of fighting was the only way they would be able to trade blows with the Indians, the colonists adopted guerilla warfare themselves. The clashing of these two cultures during the Pequot War caused tremendous cultural change for both the natives and the colonists. Had the Indians known that the colonists would be so ruthless in their dealings, they would have responded differently when confronted with such a barbaric and unremorseful assault. The Indians were quick learners, and without haste picked up for themselves the manner in which colonists conducted their form of warfare - which was to leave no survivors, take everything, and destroy anyone that lay in the path of their objectives. The later years would prove this to be true, when both Indians and colonists would fight without an ounce of pity for the suffering of their adversaries.

Wooh
* Borkowski WILL
* Kochanski DUSTIN
* Ohearn ROBERT
* Parker BRIAN
Essay #2: Usually different cultures have different ways of doing things such has eating, religion, but especially how they view and go about warfare.  This essay talks about how the Native Americans and the Colonists both had two different ritualistic forms of warfare.  For example, the Native Americans usually fought for selfish reasons which lead the lease conflicts being small compared to the Colonists that were used to large, organized-type fighting.  Because of their different styles of fighting they caused major cultural difference during the Pequot War.


Document #2: One of the major problems of war in the world in the difference of belief and religion between everyone, this is the basis of this document.  Captain John Underhill advocates that the crazy attack on the Pequot&amp;rsquo;s was because of religion.  Captain said that no matter who you are when you have committed so much since you deserved what&amp;rsquo;s coming to you from children to elders.


h3 Team 3
* Berg HUNTER MPAMH Document 6 This document is a letter from then-Colonel George Washington to Governor Robert Dinwiddie, praising the members of the Virginia Provincial Troops that were under his command from 1754 to 1757. Washington claims that these men have not been honored, paid, or treated as regular soldiers even though they had been trained, fought, and claimed victories as any other regular force had. Washington hopes the Governor will reward the &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;ldquo;irregulars&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;rdquo; for their service.
Essay 3 In his essay, Don Higganbotham explains that the evolution of 17th century militiamen to the semi-professional continental army whose combat paved the way to American Independence was quite gradual. Higganbotham explains that large steps were taken before the development of the mighty Continentals. These steps included the scrapping of pikeman from early militias (they were once one third of the each regiment), combat experience tied with heightened organization of civilian&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;rsquo;s commitment to arms, etc.
* Darko KWAME Essay 3
The evolution of the Colonial Militia Army was a gradual process. As the community started to become more closely adapted, so did the Militia colonial army. The transition to a better establishment of force influenced the outcome of the war.
Doc 6.
A letter from George Washington to Governor Dinwiddie Robert for the excellent work of his troops that were under his command. In hopes of this letter washington hoped to establish better treatment and rewards for the troops.
* Parmett MATT 
Document 6. Colonel George Washington Praises the Virginia Provincial Troops, 1757

George Washington was praising the Virginia Provincial Troops because these troops have fought continually for the three years that they have served. During this span, other Troops have a significant amount of time off in Winter Quarters. Washington is praising the troops because they have continued to fight with great spirit and cheerfulness. The troops have been constantly battling and have been in constant pay. Washington is giving the troops hope for the Soldiers reward. Washington is also praising the troops to keep their morale high.

Essay 3. A Different View of the Evolution of the Militia to the Continental Army

The evolution of the militia to the Continental Army was a gradual change that was evolutionary and subtle in nature. The militia and Continental Army were infinitely superior to European professional armies. Militias had universal membership and men between the ages of sixteen and sixty. As society became more stratified, the makeup of the militia became less of a reflection of society compared to the early years of settlement. The colonies suffered about a thousand deaths in King Phillip's War. The colonies adopted additional forces that were a fusion of the militia and a standing army. A strong sense of military accomplishment and experienced military leadership helped drive the Americans to win their independence. The colonial military experience helped create the professional Revolutionary army.


* Robinson MATT D.6 Colonel George Washington Praises the Virginia Provincial Troops, 1757 The Virginia Provincial is a small unit of irregulars that has been engaged consistently without rest. The Unit is starting to suffer low morale. They have not been recognized by the King as a regular British force would be. They are disadvantaged but are still performing at the same if not higher level as the regular troops. Col. Washington is requesting the Kings recognition and support.

E.3 The transition from militia to the Colonial Army was a gradual process. Due to defects in the militia system, semiprofessional forces were instituted. This experience helped in the formation of a standing professional army.

* Schide CORY
Document 6: Colonel George Washington praises the Virginia Provincial Troops, who were small in numbers and constantly performed their duties without rest. Washington believes that the Provincial troops deserve to be recognized as ''regular as a Corps as any upon the Continent'' (47) and provided with benefits for they have overachieved given their size.

Essay 3: The shift from American militia to Continental Army was not as sudden as many believe. The change was evolutionary through the development of ''semiprofessional'' military forces, that were a combination of a militia and standing army. Primarily as a result of King Phillip's war, which left thousands dead, forced American society to shift from 'community' based military to a global militia, that featured soldiers from several colonies.

Team 4
* Borum WILLIAM
Document 1: 
Governor John Winthrop Recounts the Killing of John Stone and the Treaty with the Pequots, 1634

We see that the Pequots according to Governor Winthrop are keen to acquire a peaceful partnership and trade treaty with the Massachusetts Bay Colony. They are somewhat stretched thin fighting the Narragansett Indians and likewise with the Dutch. A treaty was reached with the Pequots, Narragansetts and the Colony in terms of wampumpeag and all land of Connecticut being yielded to the colony. The colony also was inclined to believe that Capt. Stone and the other Englishman's deaths were deserved for killing 9 Pequots.

Essay 2:
The Tragedy of Conflicting Military Cultures - Adam J. Hirsch 

The New England colonists and New England Native Americans had very different goals, desires, and means to wage war. New England colonists set up settlements through the advice and knowledge of what were called military experts, and deferred to their expertise when needed. As such, the settlements had alarm systems and routines for the safety of its citizens. All able-bodied men were also conscripted to join the local militia and were called upon by the government when needed. The culture was military-minded to say the least; colonists had the mentality to 'conquer and subdue' (Hirsch 54) enemies. Meanwhile, the local Indian population had less stress on expert knowledge and more of a parental control of its population. Wars were not usually started by leaders, but mostly started by aggressors in the population, and as such, these so-called wars were mostly the result of dishonor and insults. Thus these wars were ended when retribution was payed, and was not fueled by a desire to obtain land or the want to conquer and subdue their enemies. Indian practiced war through guerrilla raids and ritualistic preparation for war with face paint etc. In contrast, New England colonists had specific and documented movements to make before even firing a weapon. The Pequots did not realize what they were risking when they challenged the colonists; they assumed the results would be minimal like their previous wars with neighboring Indian populations.


* Christian JUSTON
In the essay, The Tragedy of Conflicting Military Cultures, Hirsch discusses how the difference in culture between the colonists and the Natives shaped the way they waged war.  The colonists amended their combat tactics to more effectively fight against the abnormal warfare practiced by the Natives.  They also learned to respect their enemy, as the Natives were often even more proficient fighters than the colonist.  The Natives learned to fight a more bloody and merciless type of war.  The final result was warfare that left more death and destruction than ever before.

Document 1: 
The Pequot's killed Captain John Stone because they believed Stone killed some of their own. Massachusetts Bay Colony Governor John Winthrop wrote in his journal that the Pequot's wanted to make a peaceful partnership and trade treaty with the Massachusetts Bay Colony. 

* Dow JOSH
;Document 1: Massachusetts Bay Colony Governor John Winthrop wrote in his journal that the Pequots wanted to make peace with the colony and trade with them. The Pequots had killed Captain John Stone but said they did so because he had kidnapped and then killed two Pequots. They agreed however to let the colonists have the two living Pequots responsible for Stone's death. Winthrop said he also tried to make peace between the Pequots and the Naragansetts.
Essay 2: This essay describes the differences in warfare tactics and attitudes between the natives and the colonists. Native warfare was different because it usually occurred as a result of retaliation rather than to gain property, it consisted of guerrilla raids throughout the wilderness, and it usually minimized casualties. Each side needed to adjust to the other's style of and purpose for fighting and once they learned how the other fought they tried to reduce conflict, but it also led to much more dangerous wars. 'Cultural contact reduced the danger of accidental war, but it also created the potential for intentional wars of unusually devastating character,' pg. 59.
* Foun EVAN
Document 1:
This document talks about the Colonists and how they were able to establish a peace between the Pequots, Naragansetts, and themselves by agreeing to trade with both sides so long as the pequots handed over the two members that were in part responsbile for the murder of Captain Stone. 

Essay 2:
The styles of war differed greatly between the native tribes and the colonists. When Europeans went to war, they went with the intention of conquering or subduing their enemies and often started for political or economic reasons. They used armies for their wars, often through local militias and the governments had experts on warfare and provided their armies with the proper equipment. The Native Americans went to war not for money or land, but for honor and retribution. Indians did not fight to conquer, instead 'An Indian war ostensibly ceased when the aggrieved had inflicted retribution.' (pg.55). Native Americans often fought in raiding parties with a guerilla style of war, and sometimes a war could be as much as the sachems of each village fighting in single combat.


* Stearns NICK The first document recounts how the governor creates a treaty with the Pekod people to trade, in return for turning over criminals. The governor also makes a treaty with the enemy of the Pekod&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;rsquo;s, along with an agreement to create peace between them.

The second essay explores the differences in military culture, such as how forces were created and how the defeated were treated, between settlers and natives in America. It also talked about how the military cultures changed in response to meeting each other.
 
Team 5
* Guiffre JOHN
Doc 5

This document discusses from William's perspective how brutal and &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;quot;non-european&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;quot; the indians fought.

Essay 1
The Puritan's savage attack on the Pequots was a bloody massacre. The Puritans had went against their word and forced allied tribes to fight against one another. 

* McLaughlin BRENDAN
Document 5:

Indian warfare is far less bloody and savage then that of its European counterpart. Roger Williams describes Indian warfare in a ritualistic and courageous sense for two major reasons. Fighting leads to very few losses because it is done with &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;ldquo;leaping and dancing&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;rdquo; and also the tendency to &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;ldquo;retire from fighting&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;rdquo; to save the wounded. In addition it is typically only the most courageous conqueror who should be slain as they are the one to attack the enemy in full force, meaning innocent lives are not lost.

Essay 1:

&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;ldquo;The Puritans were Savages&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;rdquo; or the title of this essay is also the lesson to be learned. The essay focuses especially on Captain Mason&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;rsquo;s conquest of the Pequots territory. Under the false guise of a retaliatory attack the Pequot Indians were massacred and their territory divided. Europeans not only dominated the Indians in terms of military strength but also pitted the multiple tribes against each other and spread propaganda to paint the Indians as the &amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;ldquo;evil&amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;amp;rdquo; of the lands.

* Butensky JON
MPAMH Chapter 2, Document 5
Roger Williams explains the vicious fighting techniques of Indian Warfare based on geography and how these techniques were ''limited'' compared to the common battle styles (European-American-style warfare) used during this time period. The Indians would use ''every Trees as a Bucklar (shields)'', and when fighting in plains they would ''fight with leaping and dancing'' (Chambers II and Piehler, 1999). When wounded or killed, they were recognized as fighting with ''great Valor and Courage'', and the Indians would even collect ''the Head of the Enemy'' (Chambers II and Piehler, 1999).

MPAMH Chapter 2, Essay 1
In Francis Jennings' essay ''The Puritans Were the Savages'' he proves his point how the European's brutal and dishonorable origin of war and combat was used against ''noncombatants'' or Indians, even those not involved with the fighting during the Pequot War (Chambers II and Piehler, 1999). This brutal style of warfare was demonstrated when, with the assistance of ally Narragansett and Mohegan Indians, Captain John Mason and his men attacked a Pequot village on the Mystic River (Chambers II and Piehler, 1999). With this ruthless attack in Connecticut, the Indians, including former Indian allies, realized that most ''solemn pledge would be broken whenever obligation conflicted with advantage'', there was no ''limit of scruple or mercy'', and the weapons that the Indians used were useless against any weapons that were English manufactured (Chambers II and Piehler, 1999).
* Street MOLLY Document 5;Roger Williams Ponders The Self Imposed Limitations of Indian Warfare In this document Roger Williams discusses Indian Warfare and how they do not fight with swords or guns, therefore the dead have passed with courage and valor, and those who conquer bring out the head of their enemy. This document is discussing the limits of the Indian warfare and how they had to use their surroundings as advantages. Essay 1;The Puritans Were the Savages Francis Jennings' essay The Puritans Were the Savages focuses on the English puritans of the Massachusetts Bay colony and the Connecticut colony and their Indian allies, the Mohegan and Narragansett's, and how these puritans brutally attacked the Pequots in Mystic. The essay focuses on the war strategies of both sides of the battle, how the Pequots were preparing, and how the puritans prepared and later carried out their attack. The English followed Captain Mason who led them to the murder of the Pequots, their women and children and elderly, the english puritans watched them all burn. Jennings' later states in his essay that, The Pequot conquest did not bring interracial peace to New England. It rather brought a new set of conflicting alliances in which Indians, as junior partners, fought with each other in ways that were permitted and encouraged for particular purposes of particular Puritan Colonies (MPAMH, PG 53). This quotation shows just how much the puritans controlled their Indian allies, and helps us to understand why these allies carried out the Pequot mission.
* Thomson MATT Document 5:
Roger Williams Ponders the self-imposed Limitations of Indian Warfare, 1643 (Encyclopedia of Indian language and culture)
Roger Williams, founder of Rhode Island, writes about the Indians traditional style of warfare compared to the European style. Williams writes how the battles are far less bloody and are won with great valor and courage.
Essay 1:
The Puritans Were the Savages
The Pequot War stood as an example of colonial imperialism over Native Americans and savage warfare tactics established by civilized Europe over noncombatants. For example, under the direction of Capt. Mason from CT, three hundred to seven hundred Pequot's were killed during an ambush attack on May 26, 1637. This included women, children, and the elderly. This attack/war was deeply rooted with aspirations from Mass. And Conn. to acquire Pequot Land.

Team 1 
*  Crump TYLER MPAMH Document 3. This document is the firsthand account from Captain John Mason explaining the invasion and eventual destruction by fire of an Indian village. During the Pequot War, Mason recounts that the order was given to burn the village and to slaughter all of the inhabitants. One thing that was particularly interesting to me was the references to God and how it seems apparent that many believed their actions were justified by God.
MPAMH Document 4. This document provides a different perspective on the murder and burning of a Pequot Indian Village. William Apess, a Pequot himself, helps to highlight the brutality of the attack through his own words on the events that occurred. Apess asks the question of how anyone could justify the actions taken place by those such as Captain John Mason. Apess also questions how ancient Roman noblemen suffered death at the hand of the Gauls with no resistance and were applauded as noble and magnanimous; but the Indians that took the same action were seen as 'o